the word that came to Jeremiah from the
Lord hear the word
of this covenant and speak to the men of
Judah and to the inhabitants of
Jerusalem and say to them thus says the
Lord God of Israel cursed is the man who
does not obey the words of this covenant
which I commanded your fathers in the
day I brought them out of the land of
Egypt from the iron furnace saying obey
my voice and do according to all that I
command you so shall you be my people
and I will be your God that I may
establish the oath which I have sworn to
your father's to give them a land
flowing with milk and honey as it is
this day and I answered and said so be
it Lord then the Lord said to me
proclaim all these words in the cities
of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem
saying hear the words of this covenant
and do them for I earnestly exported
your father's in the day I brought them
up out of the land of Egypt until this
day rising early and exhorting saying
obey my voice yet they did not obey or
incline their ear but everyone followed
the dictates of his evil heart therefore
I will bring upon them all the words of
this covenant which I commanded them to
do but which they have not done and the
Lord said to me a conspiracy has been
found among the men of Judah and among
the inhabitants of Jerusalem they have
turned back to the iniquities of their
forefathers who refused to hear my words
and they have gone after other gods to
serve them the house of Israel and the
house of Judah have broken my covenant
which I made with their fathers
therefore thus says the Lord
behold I will surely bring calamity on
them which they will not be able to
escape and though they cry out to me I
will not listen to them then the cities
of Judah and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem will go and cry out to the
gods to whom they offer incense but they
will not save them at all in the time of
their trouble for according to the
number of your cities were your gods o
Judah and according to the number of the
streets of Jerusalem you have set up
altars to that shameful thing altars to
burn incense to bathe so do not pray for
this people or lift up a cry or prayer
for them for I will not hear them in the
time that they cry out to me because of
their trouble what has my beloved to do
in my house having done new deeds with
many and the Holy flesh has passed from
you when you do evil then you rejoice
the Lord called your name green olive
tree lovely and of good fruit with the
noise of a great tumult he has kindled
fire on it and its branches are broken
for the Lord of hosts who planted you
has pronounced doom against you for the
evil of the house of Israel and of the
house of Judah which they have done
against themselves to provoke me to
anger in offering incense to bail now
the Lord gave me knowledge of it and I
know it for you showed me their doings
but I was like a docile and brought to
the slaughter and I did not know that
they had devised schemes against me
saying let us destroy the tree with its
fruit and let us cut him off from the
land of the living that his name may be
remembered no more
but Oh Lord of Hosts you who judge
righteously testing the mind and the
heart let me see your vengeance on them
for to you I have revealed my cause
therefore thus says the Lord concerning
the men of Anathoth who seek your life
saying do not prophesy in the name of
the lord lest you die by our hand
therefore thus says the Lord of Hosts
behold I will punish them the young men
shall die by the sword
their sons and their daughters shall die
by famine and there shall be no remnant
of them for I will bring catastrophe on
the man of Anathoth even the year of
their punishment
[Music]
you